
I went home with a feeling of exultation. My scheme had succeeded far better
than I could possibly have hoped. Lord Nasby had been positively genial. It
only now remained for me to "Make good," as he expressed it. Once locked in
my own room, I took out my precious piece of paper and studied it attentively.
Here was the clue to the mystery.
To begin with, what did the figures represent? There were five of them, and a
dot after the first two. "Seventeen-one hundred and twenty-two," I
murmured.
That did not seem to lead to anything.
Next I added them up. That is often done in works of fiction and leads to
surprising deductions.
"One and seven make eight and one is nine and two are eleven and two are
thirteen."
Thirteen! Fateful number! Was this a warning to me to leave the whole thing
alone? Very possibly. Anyway, except as a warning, it seemed to be singularly
useless. I declined to believe that any conspirator would take that way of
writing thirteen in real life. If he meant thirteen, he would write thirteen.
"13"-like that.
There was a space between the one and the two. I accordingly subtracted twenty-
two from a hundred and seventy-one. The result was a hundred and fifty-nine. I
did it again and made it a hundred and forty-nine. These arithmetical exercises
were doubtless excellent practice, but as regarded the solution of the mystery,
they seemed totally ineffectual. I left arithmetic alone, not attempting fancy
division or multiplication, and went on to the words.
Kilmorden Castle. That was something definite. A place. Probably the cradle of
an aristocratic family. (Missing heir? Claimant to title?) Or possibly a
picturesque ruin. (Buried treasure?)
Yes, on the whole I inclined to the theory of buried treasure. Figures always
go with buried treasure. One pace to the right, seven paces to the left, dig
one foot, descend twenty-two steps. That sort of idea. I could work out that
later. The thing was to get to Kilmorden Castle as quickly as possible.
I made a strategic sally from my room and returned laden with books of
reference. Who's_Who, Whitaker, a Gazetteer, a History of Scotch Ancestral
Homes, and Somebody or other's British Isles.
Time passed. I searched diligently, but with growing annoyance. Finally, I shut
the last book with a bang. There appeared to be no such place as Kilmorden
Castle. Here was an unexpected check. There must be such a place. Why should
any one invent a name like that and write it down on a piece of paper? Absurd!
Another idea occurred to me. Possibly it was a castellated abomination in the
suburbs with a high-sounding name invented by its owner. But if so, it was
going to be extraordinarily hard to find. I sat back gloomily on my heels (I
always sit on the floor to do anything really important) and wondered how on
earth I was to set about it.
Was there any other line I could follow? I reflected earnestly and then sprang
to my feet delightedly. Of course! I must visit the "scene of the crime."
Always done by the best sleuths! And no matter how long afterwards it may be,
they always find something that the police have overlooked. My course was
clear. I must go to Marlow.
But how was I to get into the house? I discarded several adventurous methods,
and plumped for stern simplicity. The house had been to let-presumably was
still to let. I would be a prospective tenant.
I also decided on attacking the local house-agents, as having fewer houses on
their books.
Here, however, I reckoned without my host. A pleasant clerk produced
particulars of about half a dozen desirable properties. It took all my
ingenuity to find objections to them. In the end I feared I had drawn a blank.
"And you've really nothing else?" I asked, gazing pathetically into the
clerk's eyes. "Something right on the river, and with a fair amount of
garden and a small lodge," I added, summing up the main points of the Mill
House, as I had gathered them from the papers.
"Well, of course there's Sir Eustace Pedler's place," said the man
doubtfully. "The Mill House, you know."
"Not-not where--" I faltered. (Really, faltering is getting to be my
strong point.)
"That's it! Where the murder took place. But perhaps you wouldn't
like--"
"Oh, I don't think I should mind," I said with an appearance of rallying.
I felt my bona_fides was now quite established. "And perhaps I might get it
cheap-in the circumstances."
A master touch that, I thought.
"Well, it's possible. There's no pretending that it will be easy to let
now-servants and all that, you know. If you like the place after you've
seen it, I should advise you to make an offer. Shall I write you out an
order?"
"If you please."
A quarter of an hour later I was at the lodge of the Mill House. In answer to
my knock, the door flew open and a tall middle-aged woman literally bounced
out.
"Nobody can go into the house, do you hear that? Fairly sick of you
reporters, I am. Sir Eustace's orders are--"
"I understood the house was to let," I said freezingly, holding out my
order. "Of course, if it's already taken--"
"Oh, I'm sure I beg your pardon, miss. I've been fairly pestered with
these newspaper people. Not a minute's peace. No, the house isn't let-nor
likely to be now."
"Are the drains wrong?" I asked in an anxious whisper.
"Oh, Lord, miss, the drains is all right! But surely you've heard about
that foreign lady as was done to death here?"
"I believe I did read something about it in the papers," I said carelessly.
My indifference piqued the good woman. If I had betrayed any interest, she
would probably have closed up like an oyster. As it was, she positively
bridled.
"I should say you did, miss! It's been in all the newspapers. The Daily
Budget's out still to catch the man who did it. It seems, according to them,
as our police are no good at all. Well, I hope they'll get him-although a
nice-looking young fellow he was and no mistake. A kind of soldierly look about
him-ah, well, I dare say he'd been wounded in the war, and sometimes they
go a bit queer afterwards, my sister's boy did. Perhaps she'd used him
bad-they're a bad lot, those foreigners. Though she was a fine-looking
woman. Stood there where you're standing now."
"Was she dark or fair?" I ventured. "You can't tell from these
newspaper portraits."
"Dark hair, and a very white face-too white for nature, I thought, and her
lips reddened something cruel. I don't like to see it-a little powder now
and then is quite another thing."
We were conversing like old friends now. I put another question.
"Did she seem nervous or upset at all?"
"Not a bit. She was smiling to herself, quiet like, as though she was amused
at something. That's why you could have knocked me down with a feather when,
the next afternoon, those people came running out calling for the police and
saying there'd been murder done. I shall never get over it, and as for
setting foot in that house after dark I wouldn't do it, not if it was ever
so. Why, I wouldn't even stay here at the lodge, if Sir Eustace hadn't been
down on his bended knees to me."
"I thought Sir Eustace Pedler was at Cannes?"
"So he was, miss. He come back to England when he heard the news, and, as to
the bended knees, that was a figure of speech, his secretary, Mr. Pagett,
having offered us double pay to stay on, and, as my John says, money is money
nowadays."
I concurred heartily with John's by no means original remarks.
"The young man now," said Mrs. James, reverting suddenly to a former point
in the conversation. "He was upset. His eyes, light eyes, they were, I
noticed them particular, was all shining. Excited, _I_ thought. But I never
dreamt of anything being wrong. Not even when he came out again looking all
queer."
"How long was he in the house?"
"Oh, not long, a matter of five minutes maybe."
"How tall was he, do you think? About six foot?"
"I should say so maybe."
"He was clean-shaven, you say?"
"Yes, miss-not even one of these toothbrush moustaches."
"Was his chin at all shiny?" I asked on a sudden impulse.
Mrs. James stared at me with awe.
"Well, now you come to mention it, miss, it was. However did you know?"
"It's a curious thing, but murderers often have shiny chins," I explained
wildly.
Mrs. James accepted the statement in all good faith.
"Really, now, miss. I never heard that before."
"You didn't notice what kind of a head he had, I suppose?"
"Just the ordinary kind, miss. I'll fetch you the keys, shall I?"
I accepted them, and went on my way to the Mill House. My reconstructions so
far I considered good. All along I had realized that the differences between
the man Mrs. James had described and my Tube "doctor" were those of non-
essentials. An overcoat, a beard, gold-rimmed eyeglasses. The "doctor" had
appeared middle-aged, but I remembered that he had stooped over the body like a
comparatively young man. There had been a suppleness which told of young
joints.
The victim of the accident (the Moth Ball man, as I called him to myself) and
the foreign woman, Mrs. de Castina, or whatever her real name was, had had an
assignation to meet at the Mill House. That was how I pieced the thing
together. Either because they feared they were being watched or for some other
reason, they chose the rather ingenious method of both getting an order to view
the same house. Thus their meeting there might have the appearance of pure
chance.
That the Moth Ball man had suddenly caught sight of the "doctor," and that
the meeting was totally unexpected and alarming to him, was another fact of
which I was fairly sure. What had happened next? The "doctor" had removed
his disguise and followed the woman to Marlow. But it was possible that had he
removed it rather hastily traces of spirit-gum might still linger on his chin.
Hence my question to Mrs. James.
Whilst occupied with my thoughts I had arrived at the low old-fashioned door of
the Mill House. Unlocking it with the key, I passed inside. The hall was low
and dark, the place smelt forlorn and mildewy. In spite of myself, I shivered.
Did the woman who had come here "smiling to herself" a few days ago feel no
chill of premonition as she entered this house? I wondered. Did the smile fade
from her lips, and did a nameless dread close round her heart? Or had she gone
upstairs, smiling still, unconscious of the doom that was so soon to overtake
her? My heart beat a little faster. Was the house really empty? Was doom
waiting for me in it also? For the first time, I understood the meaning of the
much-used word, "atmosphere." There was an atmosphere in this house, an
atmosphere of cruelty, of menace, of evil.
