
In the succeeding weeks I was a good deal bored.
Mrs. Flemming and her friends seemed to me to be supremely uninteresting. They
talked for hours of themselves and their children and of the difficulties of
getting good milk for the children and of what they said to the Dairy when the
milk wasn't good. Then they would go on to servants, and the difficulties of
getting good servants and of what they had said to the woman at the Registry
Office and of what the woman at the Registry Office had said to them. They
never seemed to read the papers or to care about what went on in the world.
They disliked travelling-everything was so different to England. The Riviera
was all right, of course, because one met all one's friends there.
I listened and contained myself with difficulty. Most of these women were rich.
The whole wide beautiful world was theirs to wander in and they deliberately
stayed in dirty dull London and talked about milkmen and servants! I think now,
looking back, that I was perhaps a shade intolerant. But they were
stupid-stupid even at their chosen job: most of them kept the most
extraordinarily inadequate and muddled housekeeping accounts.
My affairs did not progress very fast. The house and furniture had been sold,
and the amount realized had just covered our debts. As yet, I had not been
successful in finding a post. Not that I really wanted one! I had the firm
conviction that, if I went about looking for adventure, adventure would meet me
halfway. It is a theory of mine that one always gets what one wants. My theory
was about to be proved in practice.
It was early in January-the 8th, to be exact. I was returning from an
unsuccessful interview with a lady who said she wanted a secretary-companion,
but really seemed to require a strong charwoman who would work twelve hours a
day for £25 a year. Having parted with mutual veiled impolitenesses, I walked
down Edgware Road (the interview had taken place in a house in St. John's
Wood) and across Hyde Park to St. George's Hospital. There I entered Hyde
Park Corner Tube Station and took a ticket to Gloucester Road.
Once on the platform I walked to the extreme end of it. My inquiring mind
wished to satisfy itself as to whether there really were points and an opening
between the two tunnels just beyond the station in the direction of Down
Street. I was foolishly pleased to find I was right. There were not many people
on the platform, and at the extreme end there was only myself and one man. As I
passed him, I sniffed dubiously. If there is one smell I cannot bear it is that
of moth balls! This man's heavy overcoat simply reeked of them. And yet most
men begin to wear their winter overcoats before January, and consequently by
this time the smell ought to have worn off. The man was beyond me, standing
close to the edge of the tunnel. He seemed lost in thought, and I was able to
stare at him without rudeness. He was a small thin man, very brown of face,
with light blue eyes and a small dark beard.
"Just come from abroad," I deduced. "That's why his overcoat smells so.
He's come from India. Not an officer, or he wouldn't have a beard. Perhaps
a tea-planter."
At this moment the man turned as though to retrace his steps along the
platform. He glanced at me and then his eyes went on to something behind me,
and his face changed. It was distorted by fear-almost panic. He stood a step
backwards as though involuntarily recoiling from some danger, forgetting that
he was standing on the extreme edge of the platform, and went down and over.
There was a vivid flash from the rails and a crackling sound. I shrieked.
People came running up. Two station officials seemed to materialize from
nowhere and took command.
I remained where I was, rooted to the spot by a sort of horrible fascination.
Part of me was appalled at the sudden disaster, and another part of me was
coolly and dispassionately interested in the methods employed for lifting the
man off the live rail and back onto the platform.
"Let me pass, please. I am a medical man."
A tall man with a brown beard pressed past me and bent over the motionless
body.
As he examined it, a curious sense of unreality seemed to possess me. The thing
wasn't real-couldn't be. Finally, the doctor stood upright and shook his
head.
"Dead as a door-nail. Nothing to be done."
We had all crowded nearer, and an aggrieved porter raised his voice.
"Now then, stand back there, will you? What's the sense in crowding
round."
A sudden nausea seized me, and I turned blindly and ran up the stairs again
towards the lift. I felt that it was too horrible. I must get out into the open
air. The doctor who had examined the body was just ahead of me. The lift was
just about to go up, another having descended, and he broke into a run. As he
did so, he dropped a piece of paper.
I stopped, picked it up, and ran after him. But the lift gates clanged in my
face, and I was left holding the paper in my hand. By the time the second lift
reached the street level, there was no sign of my quarry. I hoped it was
nothing important that he had lost, and for the first time I examined it.
It was a plain half-sheet of notepaper with some figures and words scrawled
upon it in pencil. This is a facsimile of it:
[Indistinct cursive script which appears to say something like: "1 7 . 1 2 2
Kilmorden Castle"]
On the face of it, it certainly did not appear to be of any importance. Still,
I hesitated to throw it away. As I stood there holding it, I involuntarily
wrinkled my nose in displeasure. Moth balls again! I held the paper gingerly to
my nose. Yes, it smelt strongly of them. But, then--
I folded up the paper carefully and put it in my bag. I walked home slowly and
did a good deal of thinking.
I explained to Mrs. Flemming that I had witnessed a nasty accident in the Tube
and that I was rather upset and would go to my room and lie down. The kind
woman insisted on my having a cup of tea. After that I was left to my own
devices, and I proceeded to carry out a plan I had formed coming home. I wanted
to know what it was that had produced that curious feeling of unreality whilst
I was watching the doctor examine the body. First I lay down on the floor in
the attitude of the corpse, then I laid a bolster down in my stead, and
proceeded to duplicate, so far as I could remember, every motion and gesture of
the doctor. When I had finished I had got what I wanted. I sat back on my heels
and frowned at the opposite walls.
There was a brief notice in the evening papers that a man had been killed in
the Tube, and a doubt was expressed whether it was suicide or accident. That
seemed to me to make my duty clear, and when Mr. Flemming heard my story he
quite agreed with me.
"Undoubtedly you will be wanted at the inquest. You say no one else was near
enough to see what happened?"
"I had the feeling some one was coming up behind me, but I can't be
sure-and, anyway, they wouldn't be as near as I was."
The inquest was held. Mr. Flemming made all the arrangements and took me there
with him. He seemed to fear that it would be a great ordeal to me, and I had to
conceal from him my complete composure.
The deceased had been identified as L. B. Carton. Nothing had been found in his
pockets except a house-agent's order to view a house on the river near
Marlow. It was in the name of L. B. Carton, Russell Hotel. The bureau clerk
from the hotel identified the man as having arrived the day before and booked a
room under that name. He had registered as L. B. Carton, Kimberley, S. Africa.
He had evidently come straight off the steamer.
I was the only person who had seen anything of the affair.
"You think it was an accident?" the coroner asked me.
"I am positive of it. Something alarmed him, and he stepped backwards blindly
without thinking what he was doing."
"But what could have alarmed him?"
"That I don't know. But there was something. He looked panic-stricken."
A stolid juryman suggested that some men were terrified of cats. The man might
have seen a cat. I didn't think his suggestion a very brilliant one, but it
seemed to pass muster with the jury, who were obviously impatient to get home
and only too pleased at being able to give a verdict of accident as opposed to
suicide.
"It is extraordinary to me," said the coroner, "that the doctor who first
examined the body has not come forward. His name and address should have been
taken at the time. It was most irregular not to do so."
I smiled to myself. I had my own theory in regard to the doctor. In pursuance
of it, I determined to make a call upon Scotland Yard at an early date.
But the next morning brought a surprise. The Flemmings took in the _Daily
Budget,_ and the Daily_Budget was having a day after its own heart.
EXTRAORDINARY SEQUEL TO TUBE ACCIDENT.
WOMAN FOUND STABBED IN LONELY HOUSE.
I read eagerly.
"A sensational discovery was made yesterday at the Mill House, Marlow. The
Mill House, which is the property of Sir Eustace Pedler, M.P., is to be let
unfurnished, and an order to view this property was found in the pocket of the
man who was at first thought to have committed suicide by throwing himself on
the live rail at Hyde Park Corner Tube Station. In an upper room of the Mill
House the body of a beautiful young woman was discovered yesterday, strangled.
She is thought to be a foreigner, but so far has not been identified. The
police are reported to have a clue. Sir Eustace Pedler, the owner of the Mill
House, is wintering on the Riviera."
