
Shaking off the feelings that oppressed me, I went quickly upstairs. I had no
difficulty in finding the room of the tragedy. On the day the body was
discovered it had rained heavily, and large muddy boots had trampled the
uncarpeted floor in every direction. I wondered if the murderer had left any
footmarks the previous day. It was likely that the police would be reticent on
the subject if he had, but on consideration I decided it was unlikely. The
weather had been fine and dry.
There was nothing of interest about the room. It was almost square with two big
bay windows, plain white walls and a bare floor, the boards being stained round
the edges where the carpet had ceased. I searched it carefully, but there was
not so much as a pin lying about. The gifted young detective did not seem
likely to discover a neglected clue.
I had brought with me a pencil and notebook. There did not seem much to note,
but I duly dotted down a brief sketch of the room to cover my disappointment at
the failure of my quest. As I was in the act of returning the pencil to my bag,
it slipped from my fingers and rolled along the floor.
The Mill House was really old, and the floors were very uneven. The pencil
rolled steadily, with increasing momentum, until it came to rest under one of
the windows. In the recess of each window there was a broad window-seat,
underneath which there was a cupboard. My pencil was lying right against the
cupboard door. The cupboard was shut, but it suddenly occurred to me that if it
had been open my pencil would have rolled inside. I opened the door, and my
pencil immediately rolled in and sheltered modestly in the farthest corner. I
retrieved it, noting as I did so that owing to the lack of light and the
peculiar formation of the cupboard one could not see it, but had to feel for
it. Apart from my pencil the cupboard was empty, but being thorough by nature I
tried the one under the opposite window.
At first sight, it looked as though that also was empty, but I grubbed about
perseveringly, and was rewarded by feeling my hand close on a hard paper
cylinder which lay in a sort of trough, or depression, in the far corner of the
cupboard. As soon as I had it in my hand, I knew what it was. A roll of kodak
films. Here was a find!
I realized, of course, that these films might very well be an old roll
belonging to Sir Eustace Pedler which had rolled in here and had not been found
when the cupboard was emptied. But I did not think so. The red paper was far
too fresh-looking. It was just as dusty as it would have been had it laid there
for two or three days-that is to say, since the murder. Had it been there for
any length of time, it would have been thickly coated.
Who had dropped it? The woman or the man? I remembered that the contents of her
handbag had appeared to be intact. If it had been jerked open in the struggle
and the roll of films had fallen out, surely some of the loose money would have
been scattered about also? No, it was not the woman who had dropped the films.
I sniffed suddenly and suspiciously. Was the smell of moth balls becoming an
obsession with me? I could swear that the roll of films smelt of it also? I
held them under my nose. They had, as usual, a strong smell of their own, but
apart from that I could clearly detect the odour I disliked so much. I soon
found the cause. A minute shred of cloth had caught on a rough edge of the
centre wood, and that shred was strongly impregnated with moth balls. At some
time or another the films had been carried in the overcoat pocket of the man
who was killed in the Tube. Was it he who had dropped them here? Hardly. His
movements were all accounted for.
No, it was the other man, the "doctor." He had taken the films when he had
taken the paper. It was he who had dropped them here during his struggle with
the woman.
I had got my clue! I would have the roll developed, and then I would have
further developments to work upon.
Very elated, I left the house, returned the keys to Mrs. James and made my way
as quickly as possible to the station. On the way back to town, I took out my
paper and studied it afresh. Suddenly the figures took on a new significance.
Suppose they were a date? 17 1 22. The 17th of January, 1922. Surely that must
be it! Idiot that I was not to have thought of it before. But in that case I
must find out the whereabouts of Kilmorden Castle, for to-day was actually the
14th. Three days. Little enough-almost hopeless when one had no idea of where
to look!
It was too late to hand in my roll to-day. I had to hurry home to Kensington so
as not to be late for dinner. It occurred to me that there was an easy way of
verifying whether some of my conclusions were correct. I asked Mr. Flemming
whether there had been a camera amongst the dead man's belongings. I knew
that he had taken an interest in the case and was conversant with all the
details.
To my surprise and annoyance he replied that there had been no camera. All
Carton's effects had been gone over very carefully in the hopes of finding
something that might throw light upon his state of mind. He was positive that
there had been no photographic apparatus of any kind.
That was rather a set-back to my theory. If he had no camera, why should he be
carrying a roll of films?
I set out early next morning to take my precious roll to be developed. I was so
fussy that I went all the way to Regent Street to the big Kodak place. I handed
it in and asked for a print of each film. The man finished stacking together a
heap of films packed in yellow tin cylinders for the tropics, and picked up my
roll.
He looked at me.
"You've made a mistake, I think," he said, smiling.
"Oh, no," I said. "I'm sure I haven't."
"You've given me the wrong roll. This is an unexposed one."
I walked out with what dignity I could muster. I dare say it is good for one
now and again to realize what an idiot one can be! But nobody relishes the
process.
And then, just as I was passing one of the big shipping offices, I came to a
sudden halt. In the window was a beautiful model of one of the company's
boats, and it was labelled "Kenilworth Castle." A wild idea shot through my
brain. I pushed the door open and went in. I went up to the counter and in
faltering voice (genuine this time!) I murmured:
"Kilmorden Castle?"
"On the 17th from Southampton. Cape Town? First or second class?"
"How much is it?"
"First class, eighty-seven pounds--"
I interrupted him. The coincidence was too much for me. Exactly the amount of
my legacy! I would put all my eggs in one basket.
"First class," I said.
I was now definitely committed to the adventure.
