
Everybody has been at me, right and left, to write this story from the great
(represented by Lord Nasby) to the small (represented by our late maid of all
work, Emily, whom I saw when I was last in England. "Lor', miss, what a
beyewtiful book you might make out of it all—just like the pictures!").
I'll admit that I've certain qualifications for the task. I was mixed up in
the affair from the very beginning, I was in the thick of it all through, and I
was triumphantly "in at the death." Very fortunately, too, the gaps that I
cannot supply from my own knowledge are amply covered by Sir Eustace Pedler's
diary, of which he has kindly begged me to make use.
So here goes. Anne Beddingfeld starts to narrate her adventures.
I'd always longed for adventures. You see, my life had such a dreadful
sameness. My father, Professor Beddingfeld, was one of England's greatest
living authorities on Primitive Man. He really was a genius—every one admits
that. His mind dwelt in Palaeolithic times, and the inconvenience of life for
him was that his body inhabited the modern world. Papa did not care for modern
man—even Neolithic Man he despised as a mere herder of cattle, and he did not
rise to enthusiasm until he reached the Mousterian period.
Unfortunately one cannot entirely dispense with modern men. One is forced to
have some kind of truck with butchers and bakers and milkmen and greengrocers.
Therefore, Papa being immersed in the past, Mamma having died when I was a
baby, it fell to me to undertake the practical side of living. Frankly, I hate
Palaeolithic Man, be he Aurignacian, Mousterian, Chellian, or anything else,
and though I typed and revised most of Papa's _Neanderthal Man and his
Ancestors,_ Neanderthal men themselves fill me with loathing, and I always
reflect what a fortunate circumstance it was that they became extinct in remote
ages.
I do not know whether Papa guessed my feelings on the subject, probably not,
and in any case he would not have been interested. The opinion of other people
never interested him in the slightest degree. I think it was really a sign of
his greatness. In the same way, he lived quite detached from the necessities of
daily life. He ate what was put before him in an exemplary fashion, but seemed
mildly pained when the question of paying for it arose. We never seemed to have
any money. His celebrity was not of the kind that brought in a cash return.
Although he was a fellow of almost every important society, and had rows of
letters after his name, the general public scarcely knew of his existence, and
his long learned books, though adding signally to the sum-total of human
knowledge, had no attraction for the masses. Only on one occasion did he leap
into the public gaze. He had read a paper before some society on the subject of
the young of the chimpanzee. The young of the human race show some anthropoid
features, whereas the young of the chimpanzee approach more nearly to the human
than the adult chimpanzee does. That seems to show that whereas our ancestors
were more Simian than we are, the chimpanzee's were of a higher type than the
present species—in other words, the chimpanzee is a degenerate. That
enterprising newspaper, the _Daily Budget,_ being hard up for something spicy,
immediately brought itself out with large headlines. "We are not descended
from monkeys, but are monkeys descended from us? Eminent Professor says
chimpanzees are decadent humans." Shortly afterwards a reporter called to see
Papa, and endeavoured to induce him to write a series of popular articles on
the theory. I have seldom seen Papa so angry. He turned the reporter out of the
house with scant ceremony, much to my secret sorrow, as we were particularly
short of money at the moment. In fact, for a moment I meditated running after
the young man and informing him that my father had changed his mind and would
send the articles in question. I could easily have written them myself, and the
probabilities were that Papa would never have learnt of the transaction, not
being a reader of the Daily_Budget. However, I rejected this course as being
too risky, so I merely put on my best hat and went sadly down the village to
interview our justly irate grocer.
The reporter from the Daily_Budget was the only young man who ever came to our
house. There were times when I envied Emily, our little servant, who "walked
out" whenever occasion offered with a large sailor to whom she was affianced.
In between times, to "keep her hand in" as she expressed it, she walked out
with the greengrocer's young man, and the chemist's assistant. I reflected
sadly that I had no one to "keep my hand in" with. All Papa's friends
were aged Professors—usually with long beards. It is true that Professor
Peterson once clasped me affectionately and said I had a "neat little
waist" and then tried to kiss me. The phrase alone dated him hopelessly. No
self-respecting female has had a "neat little waist" since I was in my
cradle.
I yearned for adventure, for love, for romance, and I seemed condemned to an
existence of drab utility. The village possessed a lending library, full of
tattered works of fiction, and I enjoyed perils and love-making at second hand,
and went to sleep dreaming of stern, silent Rhodesians, and of strong men who
always "felled their opponent with a single blow." There was no one in the
village who even looked as though he could "fell" an opponent, with a
single blow or with several.
There was the Kinema too, with a weekly episode of "The Perils of Pamela."
Pamela was a magnificent young woman. Nothing daunted her. She fell out of
aeroplanes, adventured in submarines, climbed skyscrapers and crept about in
the Underworld without turning a hair. She was not really clever, the Master
Criminal of the Underworld caught her each time, but as he seemed loath to
knock her on the head in a simple way, and always doomed her to death in a
sewer-gas chamber or by some new and marvellous means, the hero was always able
to rescue her at the beginning of the following week's episode. I used to
come out with my head in a delirious whirl—and then I would get home and find
a notice from the Gas Company threatening to cut us off if the outstanding
account was not paid!
And yet, though I did not suspect it, every moment was bringing adventure
nearer to me.
It is possible that there are many people in the world who have never heard of
the finding of an antique skull at the Broken Hill Mine in Northern Rhodesia. I
came down one morning to find Papa excited to the point of apoplexy. He poured
out the whole story to me.
"You understand, Anne? There are undoubtedly certain resemblances to the Java
skull, but superficial—superficial only. No, here we have what I have always
maintained—the ancestral form of the Neanderthal race. You grant that the
Gibraltar skull is the most primitive of the Neanderthal skulls found? Why? The
cradle of the race was in Africa. They passed to Europe——"
"Not marmalade on kippers, papa," I said hastily, arresting my parent's
absent-minded hand. "Yes, you were saying?"
"They passed to Europe on——"
Here he broke down with a bad fit of choking, the result of an immoderate
mouthful of kipper-bones.
"But we must start at once," he declared, as he rose to his feet at the
conclusion of the meal. "There is no time to be lost. We must be on the
spot—there are doubtless incalculable finds to be found in the neighbourhood.
I shall be interested to note whether the implements are typical of the
Mousterian period—there will be the remains of the primitive ox, I should
say, but not those of the woolly rhinoceros. Yes, a little army will be
starting soon. We must get ahead of them. You will write to Cook's to-aay,
Anne?"
"What about money, papa?" I hinted delicately.
He turned a reproachful eye upon me.
"Your point of view always depresses me, my child. We must not be sordid. No,
no, in the cause of science one must not be sordid."
"I feel Cook's might be sordid, papa."
Papa looked pained.
"My dear Anne, you will pay them in ready money."
"I haven't got any ready money."
Papa looked thoroughly exasperated.
"My child, I really cannot be bothered with these vulgar money details. The
bank—I had something from the Manager yesterday, saying I had twenty-seven
pounds."
"That's your overdraft, I fancy."
"Ah, I have it! Write to my publishers."
I acquiesced doubtfully, Papa's books bringing in more glory than money. I
liked the idea of going to Rhodesia immensely. "Stern silent men," I
murmured to myself in an ecstasy. Then something in my parent's appearance
struck me as unusual.
"You have odd boots on, papa," I said. "Take off the brown one and put on
the other black one. And don't forget your muffler. It's a very cold
day."
In a few minutes Papa stalked off, correctly booted and well mufflered.
He returned late that evening, and, to my dismay, I saw his muffler and
overcoat were missing.
"Dear me, Anne, you are quite right. I took them off to go into the cavern.
One gets so dirty there."
I nodded feelingly, remembering an occasion when Papa had returned literally
plastered from head to foot with rich Pleiocene clay.
Our principal reason for settling in Little Hampsly had been the neighbourhood
of Hampsly Cavern, a buried cave rich in deposits of the Aurignacian culture.
We had a tiny Museum in the village, and the curator and Papa spent most of
their days messing about underground and bringing to light portions of woolly
rhinoceros and cave bear.
Papa coughed badly all the evening, and the following morning I saw he had a
temperature and sent for the doctor.
Poor Papa, he never had a chance. It was double pneumonia. He died four days
later.
