
I was violently excited. I was sure that I had hit on the right trail at last.
One thing was clear, I must not move out of the cabin. The asafœtida had got
to be borne. I examined my facts again.
Tomorrow was the 22nd, and at 1 a.m. or 1 p.m. something would happen. I
plumped for 1 a.m. It was now seven o'clock. In six hours I should know.
I don't know how I got through the evening. I retired to my cabin fairly
early. I had told the stewardess that I had a cold in the head and didn't
mind smells. She still seemed distressed, but I was firm.
The evening seemed interminable. I duly retired to bed, but in view of
emergencies I swathed myself in a thick flannel dressing-gown, and encased my
feet in slippers. Thus attired I felt that I could spring up and take an active
part in anything that happened.
What did I expect to happen? I hardly knew. Vague fancies, most of them wildly
improbable, flitted through my brain. But one thing I was firmly convinced of,
at one o'clock something would happen.
At various times, I heard my fellow-passengers coming to bed. Fragments of
conversation, laughing good-nights, floated in through the open transom. Then,
silence. Most of the lights went out. There was still one in the passage
outside, and there was therefore a certain amount of light in my cabin. I heard
eight bells go. The hour that followed seemed the longest I had ever known. I
consulted my watch surreptitiously to be sure I had not overshot the time.
If my deductions were wrong, if nothing happened at one o'clock, I should
have made a fool of myself, and spent all the money I had in the world on a
mare's-nest. My heart beat painfully.
Two bells went overhead. One o'clock! And nothing. Wait-what was that? I
heard the quick light patter of feet running-running along the passage.
Then with the suddenness of a bombshell my cabin door burst open and a man
almost fell inside.
"Save me," he said hoarsely. "They're after me."
It was not a moment for argument or explanation. I could hear footsteps
outside. I had about forty seconds in which to act. I had sprung to my feet and
was standing facing the stranger in the middle of the cabin.
A cabin does not abound in hiding-places for a six-foot man. With one arm I
pulled out my cabin trunk. He slipped down behind it under the bunk. I raised
the lid. At the same time, with the other hand I pulled down the wash-basin. A
deft movement and my hair was screwed into a tiny knot on the top of my head.
From the point of view of appearance it was inartistic, from another standpoint
it was supremely artistic. A lady, with her hair screwed into an unbecoming
knob and in the act of removing a piece of soap from her trunk with which,
apparently to wash her neck, could hardly be suspected of harbouring a
fugitive.
There was a knock at the door, and without waiting for me to say, "Come
in," it was pushed open.
I don't know what I expected to see. I think I had vague ideas of Mr. Pagett
brandishing a revolver. Or my missionary friend with a sandbag, or some other
lethal weapon. But certainly I did not expect to see a night stewardess, with
an inquiring face and looking the essence of respectability.
"I beg your pardon, miss, I thought you called out."
"No," I said, "I didn't."
"I'm sorry for interrupting you."
"That's all right," I said. "I couldn't sleep. I thought a wash would
do me good." It sounded rather as though it were a thing I never had as a
general rule.
"I'm so sorry, miss," said the stewardess again. "But there's a
gentleman about who's rather drunk, and we are afraid he might get into one
of the ladies' cabins and frighten them."
"How dreadful," I said, looking alarmed. "He won't come in here, will
he?"
"Oh, I don't think so, miss. Ring the bell if he does. Good night."
"Good night."
I opened the door and peeped down the corridor. Except for the retreating form
of the stewardess, there was nobody in sight.
Drunk! So that was the explanation of it. My histrionic talents had been
wasted. I pulled the cabin trunk out a little farther and said:
"Come out at once, please," in an acid voice.
There was no answer. I peered under the bunk. My visitor lay immovable. He
seemed to be asleep. I tugged at his shoulder. He did not move.
"Dead drunk," I thought vexedly. "What am I to do?"
Then I saw something that made me catch my breath, a small scarlet spot on the
floor.
Using all my strength, I succeeded in dragging the man out into the middle of
the cabin. The dead whiteness of his face showed that he had fainted. I found
the cause of his fainting easily enough. He had been stabbed under the left
shoulder-blade-a nasty deep wound. I got his coat off and set to work to
attend to it.
At the sting of the cold water he stirred, then sat up.
"Keep still, please," I said.
He was the kind of young man who recovers his faculties very quickly. He pulled
himself to his feet and stood there swaying a little.
"Thank you, I don't need anything done for me."
His manner was defiant, almost aggressive. Not a word of thanks-of even
common gratitude!
"That is a nasty wound. You must let me dress it."
"You will do nothing of the kind."
He flung the words in my face as though I had been begging a favour of him. My
temper, never placid, rose.
"I cannot congratulate you upon your manners," I said coldly.
"I can at least relieve you of my presence." He started for the door, but
reeled as he did so. With an abrupt movement I pushed him down upon the sofa.
"Don't be a fool," I said unceremoniously. "You don't want to go
bleeding all over the ship, do you?"
He seemed to see the sense of that, for he sat quietly whilst I bandaged up the
wound as best I could.
"There," I said, bestowing a pat on my handiwork, "that will have to do
for the present. Are you better tempered now and do you feel inclined to tell
me what it's all about?"
"I'm sorry that I can't satisfy your very natural curiosity."
"Why not?" I said, chagrined.
He smiled nastily.
"If you want a thing broadcasted, tell a woman. Otherwise keep your mouth
shut."
"Don't you think I could keep a secret?"
"I don't think-I know."
He rose to his feet.
"At any rate," I said spitefully, "I shall be able to do a little
broadcasting about the events of this evening."
"I've no doubt you will too," he said indifferently.
"How dare you?" I cried angrily.
We were facing each other, glaring at each other with the ferocity of bitter
enemies. For the first time, I took in the details of his appearance, the
close-cropped dark head, the lean jaw, the scar on the brown cheek, the curious
light grey eyes that looked into mine with a sort of reckless mockery hard to
describe. There was something dangerous about him.
"You haven't thanked me yet for saving your life?" I said with false
sweetness.
I hit him there. I saw him flinch distinctly. Intuitively I knew that he hated
above all to be reminded that he owed his life to me. I didn't care. I wanted
to hurt him. I had never wanted to hurt any one so much.
"I wish to God you hadn't!" he said explosively. "I'd be better dead
and out of it."
"I'm glad you acknowledge the debt. You can't get out of it. I saved your
life and I'm waiting for you to say 'Thank you.'"
If looks could have killed, I think he would have liked to kill me then. He
pushed roughly past me. At the door he turned back, and spoke over his
shoulder.
"I shall not thank you-now or at any other time. But I acknowledge the
debt. Some day I will pay it."
He was gone, leaving me with clenched hands, and my heart beating like a mill
race.
