
Every one was very kind to me. Dazed as I was, I appreciated that. I felt no
overwhelming grief. Papa had never loved me, I knew that well enough. If he
had, I might have loved him in return. No, there had not been love between us,
but we had belonged together, and I had looked after him, and had secretly
admired his learning and his uncompromising devotion to science. And it hurt me
that Papa should have died just when the interest of life was at its height for
him. I should have felt happier if I could have buried him in a cave, with
paintings of reindeer and flint implements, but the force of public opinion
constrained a neat tomb (with marble slab) in our hideous local churchyard. The
vicar's consolations, though well meant, did not console me in the least.
It took some time to dawn upon me that the thing I had always longed
for-freedom-was at last mine. I was an orphan, and practically penniless,
but free. At the same time I realized the extraordinary kindness of all these
good people. The vicar did his best to persuade me that his wife was in urgent
need of a companion help. Our tiny local library suddenly made up its mind to
have an assistant librarian. Finally, the doctor called upon me, and after
making various ridiculous excuses for failing to send in a proper bill, he
hummed and hawed a good deal and suddenly suggested that I should marry him.
I was very much astonished. The doctor was nearer forty than thirty, and a
round, tubby little man. He was not at all like the hero of "The Perils of
Pamela," and even less like a stern and silent Rhodesian. I reflected a
minute and then asked him why he wanted to marry me. That seemed to fluster him
a good deal, and he murmured that a wife was a great help to a General
Practitioner. The position seemed even more unromantic than before, and yet
something in me urged towards its acceptance. Safety, that was what I was being
offered. Safety-and a Comfortable Home. Thinking it over now, I believe I did
the little man an injustice. He was honestly in love with me, but a mistaken
delicacy prevented him from pressing his suit on those lines. Anyway, my love
of romance rebelled.
"It's extremely kind of you," I said. "But it's impossible. I could
never marry a man unless I loved him madly."
"You don't think--?"
"No, I don't," I said firmly.
He sighed.
"But, my dear child, what do you propose to do?"
"Have adventures and see the world," I replied, without the least
hesitation.
"Miss Anne, you are very much of a child still. You don't
understand--"
"The practical difficulties? Yes, I do, doctor. I'm not a sentimental
schoolgirl-I'm a hard-headed mercenary shrew! You'd know it if you
married me!"
"I wish you would reconsider--"
"I can't."
He sighed again.
"I have another proposal to make. An aunt of mine who lives in Wales is in
want of a young lady to help her. How would that suit you?"
"No, doctor, I'm going to London. If things happen anywhere, they happen in
London. I shall keep my eyes open and you'll see, something will turn up!
You'll hear of me next in China or Timbuctoo."
My next visitor was Mr. Flemming, Papa's London solicitor. He came down
specially from town to see me. An ardent anthropologist himself, he was a great
admirer of Papa's works. He was a tall, spare man with a thin face and grey
hair. He rose to meet me as I entered the room and, taking both my hands in
his, patted them affectionately.
"My poor child," he said. "My poor, poor child."
Without conscious hypocrisy, I found myself assuming the demeanour of a
bereaved orphan. He hypnotized me into it. He was benignant, kind and
fatherly-and without the least doubt he regarded me as a perfect fool of a
girl left adrift to face an unkind world. From the first I felt that it was
quite useless to try to convince him of the contrary. As things turned out,
perhaps it was just as well I didn't.
"My dear child, do you think you can listen to me whilst I try to make a few
things clear to you?"
"Oh, yes."
"Your father, as you know, was a very great man. Posterity will appreciate
him. But he was not a good man of business."
I knew that quite as well, if not better than Mr. Flemming, but I restrained
myself from saying so. He continued:
"I do not suppose you understand much of these matters. I will try to explain
as clearly as I can."
He explained at unnecessary length. The upshot seemed to be that I was left to
face life with the sum of £87, 17s. 4d. It seemed a strangely unsatisfying
amount. I waited in some trepidation for what was coming next. I feared that
Mr. Flemming would be sure to have an aunt in Scotland who was in want of a
bright young companion. Apparently, however, he hadn't.
"The question is," he went on, "the future. I understand you have no
living relatives?"
"I'm alone in the world," I said, and was struck anew by my likeness to a
film heroine.
"You have friends?"
"Every one has been very kind to me," I said gratefully.
"Who would not be kind to one so young and charming?" said Mr. Flemming
gallantly. "Well, well, my dear, we must see what can be done." He
hesitated a minute, and then said: "Supposing-how would it be if you came
to us for a time?"
I jumped at the chance. London! The place for things to happen.
"It's awfully kind of you," I said. "Might I really? Just while I'm
looking round. I must start out to earn my living, you know?"
"Yes, yes, my dear child. I quite understand. We will look round for
something-suitable."
I felt instinctively that Mr. Flemming's ideas of "something suitable"
and mine were likely to be widely divergent, but it was certainly not the
moment to air my views.
"That is settled then. Why not return with me to-day?"
"Oh, thank you, but will Mrs. Flemming--"
"My wife will be delighted to welcome you."
I wonder if husbands know as much about their wives as they think they do. If I
had a husband, I should hate him to bring home orphans without consulting me
first.
"We will send her a wire from the station," continued the lawyer.
My few personal belongings were soon packed. I contemplated my hat sadly before
putting it on. It had originally been what I call a "Mary" hat, meaning by
that the kind of hat a housemaid ought to wear on her day out-but doesn't!
A limp thing of black straw with a suitably depressed brim. With the
inspiration of genius, I had kicked it once, punched it twice, dented in the
crown and affixed to it a thing like a cubist's dream of a jazz carrot. The
result had been distinctly chic. The carrot I had already removed, of course,
and now I proceeded to undo the rest of my handiwork. The "Mary" hat
resumed its former status with an additional battered appearance which made it
even more depressing than formerly. I might as well look as much like the
popular conception of an orphan as possible. I was just a shade nervous of Mrs.
Flemming's reception, but hoped my appearance might have a sufficiently
disarming effect.
Mr. Flemming was nervous too. I realized that as we went up the stairs of the
tall house in a quiet Kensington Square. Mrs. Flemming greeted me pleasantly
enough. She was a stout, placid woman of the "good wife and mother" type.
She took me up to a spotless chintz-hung bedroom, hoped I had everything I
wanted, informed me that tea would be ready in about a quarter of an hour, and
left me to my own devices.
I heard her voice, slightly raised, as she entered the drawing-room below on
the first floor.
"Well, Henry, why on earth--" I lost the rest, but the acerbity of the
tone was evident. And a few minutes later another phrase floated up to me, in
an even more acid voice:
"I agree with you! She is certainly very good-looking."
It is really a very hard life. Men will not be nice to you if you are not good-
looking, and women will not be nice to you if you are.
With a deep sigh I proceeded to do things to my hair. I have nice hair. It is
black-a real black, not dark brown, and it grows well back from my forehead
and down over the ears. With a ruthless hand I dragged it upwards. As ears, my
ears are quite all right, but there is no doubt about it, ears are _démodé_
nowadays. They are like the "Queen of Spain's legs" in Professor
Peterson's young day. When I had finished I looked almost unbelievably like
the kind of orphan that walks out in a queue with a little bonnet and a red
cloak.
I noticed when I went down that Mrs. Flemming's eyes rested on my exposed
ears with quite a kindly glance. Mr. Flemming seemed puzzled. I had no doubt
that he was saying to himself, "What has the child done to herself?"
On the whole the rest of the day passed off well. It was settled that I was to
start at once to look for something to do.
When I went to bed, I stared earnestly at my face in the glass. Was I really
good-looking? Honestly, I couldn't say I thought so! I hadn't got a
straight Grecian nose, or a rosebud mouth, or any of the things you ought to
have. It is true that a curate once told me that my eyes were like
"imprisoned sunshine in a dark, dark wood"-but curates always know so
many quotations, and fire them off at random. I'd much prefer to have Irish
blue eyes than dark green ones with yellow flecks! Still, green is a good
colour for adventuresses.
I wound a black garment tightly round me, leaving my arms and shoulders bare.
Then I brushed back my hair and pulled it well down over my ears again. I put a
lot of powder on my face, so that the skin seemed even whiter than usual. I
fished about until I found some old lip-salve, and I put oceans of it on my
lips. Then I did under my eyes with burnt cork. Finally, I draped a red ribbon
over my bare shoulder, stuck a scarlet feather in my hair, and placed a
cigarette in one corner of my mouth. The whole effect pleased me very much.
"Anna the Adventuress," I said aloud, nodding at my reflection. "Anna the
Adventuress. Episode I, 'The House in Kensington'!"
Girls are foolish things.
