
_(Anne's Narrative Resumed)_
It is most undignified for a heroine to be sea-sick. In books the more it rolls
and tosses, the better she likes it. When everybody else is ill, she alone
staggers along the deck, braving the elements and positively rejoicing in the
storm. I regret to say that at the first roll the Kilmorden gave, I turned pale
and hastened below. A sympathetic stewardess received me. She suggested dry
toast and ginger ale.
I remained groaning in my cabin for three days. Forgotten was my quest. I had
no longer any interest in solving mysteries. I was a totally different Anne to
the one who had rushed back to the South Kensington square so jubilantly from
the shipping office.
I smile now as I remember my abrupt entry into the drawing-room. Mrs. Flemming
was alone there. She turned her head as I entered.
"Is that you, Anne, my dear? There is something I want to talk over with
you."
"Yes?" I said, curbing my impatience.
"Miss Emery is leaving me." Miss Emery was the governness. "As you have
not yet succeeded in finding anything, I wondered if you would care-it would
be so nice if you remained with us altogether?"
I was touched. She didn't want me, I knew. It was sheer Christian charity
that prompted the offer. I felt remorseful for my secret criticism of her.
Getting up, I ran impulsively across the room and flung my arms round her neck.
"You're a dear," I said. "A dear, a dear, a dear! And thank you ever so
much. But it's all right, I'm off to South Africa on Saturday."
My abrupt onslaught had startled the good lady. She was not used to sudden
demonstrations of affection. My words startled her still more.
"To South Africa? My dear Anne. We would have to look into anything of that
kind very carefully."
That was the last thing I wanted. I explained that I had already taken my
passage, and that upon arrival I proposed to take up the duties of a
parlourmaid. It was the only thing I could think of on the spur of the moment.
There was, I said, a great demand for parlourmaids in South Africa. I assured
her that I was equal to taking care of myself, and in the end, with a sigh of
relief at getting me off her hands, she accepted the project without further
query. At parting, she slipped an envelope into my hand. Inside it I found five
new crisp five-pound notes and the words: "I hope you will not be offended
and will accept this with my love." She was a very good, kind woman. I could
not have continued to live in the same house with her, but I did recognize her
intrinsic worth.
So here I was, with twenty-five pounds in my pocket, facing the world and
pursuing my adventure.
It was on the fourth day that the stewardess finally urged me up on deck. Under
the impression that I should die quicker below, I had steadfastly refused to
leave my bunk. She now tempted me with the advent of Madeira. Hope rose in my
breast. I could leave the boat and go ashore and be a parlourmaid there.
Anything for dry land.
Muffled in coats and rugs, and weak as a kitten on my legs, I was hauled up and
deposited, an inert mass, on a deck-chair. I lay there with my eyes closed,
hating life. The purser, a fair-haired young man, with a round boyish face,
came and sat down beside me.
"Hullo! Feeling rather sorry for yourself, eh?"
"Yes," I replied, hating him.
"Ah, you won't know yourself in another day or two. We've had rather a
nasty dusting in the Bay, but there's smooth weather ahead. I'll be taking
you on at quoits to-morrow."
I did not reply.
"Think you'll never recover, eh? But I've seen people much worse than
you, and two days later they were the life and soul of the ship. You'll be
the same."
I did not feel sufficiently pugnacious to tell him outright that he was a liar.
I endeavoured to convey it by a glance. He chatted pleasantly for a few minutes
more, then he mercifully departed. People passed and repassed, brisk couples
"exercising," curveting children, laughing young people. A few other pallid
sufferers lay, like myself, in deck-chairs.
The air was pleasant, crisp, not too cold, and the sun was shining brightly.
Insensibly, I felt a little cheered. I began to watch the people. One woman in
particular attracted me. She was about thirty, of medium height and very fair
with a round dimpled face and very blue eyes. Her clothes, though perfectly
plain, had that indefinable air of "cut" about them which spoke of Paris.
Also, in a pleasant but self-possessed way, she seemed to own the ship!
Deck stewards ran to and fro obeying her commands. She had a special deck-
chair, and an apparently inexhaustible supply of cushions. She changed her mind
three times as to where she would like it placed. Throughout everything she
remained attractive and charming. She appeared to be one of those rare people
in the world who know what they want, see that they get it, and manage to do so
without being offensive. I decided that if I ever recovered-but of course I
shouldn't-it would amuse me to talk to her.
We reached Madeira about midday. I was still too inert to move, but I enjoyed
the picturesque-looking merchants who came on board and spread their
merchandise about the decks. There were flowers too. I buried my nose in an
enormous bunch of sweet wet violets and felt distinctly better. In fact, I
thought I might just possibly last out the end of the voyage. When my
stewardess spoke of the attractions of a little chicken broth, I only protested
feebly. When it came I enjoyed it.
My attractive woman had been ashore. She came back escorted by a tall,
soldierly-looking man with dark hair and a bronzed face whom I had noticed
striding up and down the deck earlier in the day. I put him down at once as one
of the strong, silent men of Rhodesia. He was about forty, with a touch of
greying hair at either temple, and was easily the best-looking man on board.
When the stewardess brought me up an extra rug I asked her if she knew who my
attractive woman was.
"That's a well-known society lady, the Hon. Mrs. Clarence Blair. You must
have read about her in the papers."
I nodded, looking at her with renewed interest. Mrs. Blair was very well known
indeed as one of the smartest women of the day. I observed, with some
amusement, that she was the centre of a good deal of attention. Several people
essayed to scrape acquaintance with the pleasant informality that a boat
allows. I admired the polite way that Mrs. Blair snubbed them. She appeared to
have adopted the strong, silent man as her special cavalier, and he seemed duly
sensible of the privilege accorded him.
The following morning, to my surprise, after taking a few turns round the deck
with her attentive companion, Mrs. Blair came to a halt by my chair.
"Feeling better this morning?"
I thanked her, and said I felt slightly more like a human being.
"You did look ill yesterday. Colonel Race and I decided that we should have
the excitement of a funeral at sea-but you've disappointed us."
I laughed.
"Being up in the air has done me good."
"Nothing like fresh air," said Colonel Race, smiling.
"Being shut up in those stuffy cabins would kill any one," declared Mrs.
Blair, dropping into a seat by my side and dismissing her companion with a
little nod. "You've got an outside one, I hope?"
I shook my head.
"My dear girl! Why don't you change? There's plenty of room. A lot of
people got off at Madeira, and the boat's very empty. Talk to the purser
about it. He's a nice little boy-he changed me into a beautiful cabin
because I didn't care for the one I'd got. You talk to him at lunch-time
when you go down."
I shuddered.
"I couldn't move."
"Don't be silly. Come and take a walk now with me."
She dimpled at me encouragingly. I felt very weak on my legs at first, but as
we walked briskly up and down I began to feel a brighter and better being.
After a turn or two, Colonel Race joined us again.
"You can see the Grand Peak of Tenerife from the other side."
"Can we? Can I get a photograph of it, do you think?"
"No-but that won't deter you from snapping off at it."
Mrs. Blair laughed.
"You are unkind. Some of my photographs are very good."
"About three per cent effective, I should say."
We all went round to the other side of the deck. There glimmering white and
snowy, enveloped in a delicate rose-coloured mist, rose the glistening
pinnacle. I uttered an exclamation of delight. Mrs. Blair ran for her camera.
Undeterred by Colonel Race's sardonic comments, she snapped vigorously:
"There, that's the end of the roll. Oh," her tone changed to one of
chagrin, "I've had the thing at 'bulb' all the time."
"I always like to see a child with a new toy," murmured the Colonel.
"How horrid you are-but I've got another roll."
She produced it in triumph from the pocket of her sweater. A sudden roll of the
boat upset her balance, and as she caught at the rail to steady herself the
roll of films flashed over the side.
"Oh!" cried Mrs. Blair, comically dismayed. She leaned over. "Do you
think they have gone overboard?"
"No, you may have been fortunate enough to brain an unlucky steward in the
deck below."
A small boy who had arrived unobserved a few paces to our rear blew a deafening
blast on a bugle.
"Lunch," declared Mrs. Blair ecstatically. "I've had nothing to eat
since breakfast, except two cups of beef-tea. Lunch, Miss Beddingfeld?"
"Well," I said waveringly. "Yes, I do feel rather hungry."
"Splendid. You're sitting at the purser's table, I know. Tackle him about
the cabin."
I found my way down to the saloon, began to eat gingerly, and finished by
consuming an enormous meal. My friend of yesterday congratulated me on my
recovery. Every one was changing cabins to-day, he told me, and he promised
that my things should be moved to an outside one without delay.
There were only four at our table, myself, a couple of elderly ladies, and a
missionary who talked a lot about "our poor black brothers."
I looked round at the other tables. Mrs. Blair was sitting at the Captain's
table, Colonel Race next to her. On the other side of the Captain was a
distinguished-looking, grey-haired man. A good many people I had already
noticed on deck, but there was one man who had not previously appeared. Had he
done so, he could hardly have escaped my notice. He was tall and dark, and had
such a peculiarly sinister type of countenance that I was quite startled. I
asked the purser, with some curiosity, who he was.
"That man? Oh, that's Sir Eustace Pedler's secretary. Been very sea-sick,
poor chap, and not appeared before. Sir Eustace has got two secretaries with
him, and the sea's been too much for both of them. The other fellow hasn't
turned up yet. This man's name is Pagett."
So Sir Eustace Pedler, the owner of the Mill House, was on board. Probably only
a coincidence, and yet--
"That's Sir Eustace," my informant continued, "sitting next to the
Captain. Pompous old ass."
The more I studied the secretary's face, the less I liked it. Its even
pallor, the secretive, heavy-lidded eyes, the curiously flattened head-it all
gave me a feeling of distaste, of apprehension.
Leaving the saloon at the same time as he did, I was close behind him as he
went up on deck. He was speaking to Sir Eustace, and I overheard a fragment or
two. "I'll see about the cabin at once then, shall I? It's impossible to
work in yours, with all your trunks."
"My dear fellow," Sir Eustace replied. "My cabin is intended (a) for me
to sleep in, and (b) to attempt to dress in. I never had any intentions of
allowing you to sprawl about the place making an infernal clicking with that
typewriter of yours."
"That's just what I say, Sir Eustace, we must have somewhere to
work--"
Here I parted company from them, and went below to see if my removal was in
progress. I found my steward busy at the task.
"Very nice cabin, miss. On D deck. No. 13."
"Oh, no!" I cried. "Not 13."
Thirteen is the one thing I am superstitious about. It was a nice cabin too. I
inspected it, wavered, but a foolish superstition prevailed. I appealed almost
tearfully to the steward.
"Isn't there any other cabin I can have?"
The steward reflected.
"Well, there's 17, just along on the starboard side. That was empty this
morning, but I rather fancy it's been allotted to some one. Still, as the
gentleman's things aren't in yet, and as gentlemen aren't anything like
so superstitious as ladies, I dare say he wouldn't mind changing."
I hailed the proposition gratefully, and the steward departed to obtain
permission from the purser. He returned grinning.
"That's all right, miss. We can go along."
He led the way to 17. It was not quite as large as No. 13, but I found it
eminently satisfactory.
"I'll fetch your things right away, miss," said the steward.
But at that moment, the man with the sinister face (as I had nicknamed him)
appeared in the doorway.
"Excuse me," he said, "but this cabin is reserved for the use of Sir
Eustace Pedler."
"That's all right, sir," explained the steward. "We're fitting up No.
13 instead."
"No, it was No. 17 I was to have."
"No. 13 is a better cabin, sir-larger."
"I specially selected No. 17, and the purser said I could have it."
"I'm sorry," I said coldly. "But No. 17 has been allotted to me."
"I can't agree to that."
The steward put in his oar.
"The other cabin's just the same, only better."
"I want No. 17."
"What's all this?" demanded a new voice. "Steward, put my things in
here. This is my cabin."
It was my neighbor at lunch, the Rev. Edward Chichester.
"I beg your pardon," I said. "It's my cabin."
"It is allotted to Sir Eustace Pedler," said Mr. Pagett.
We were all getting rather heated.
"I'm sorry to have to dispute the matter," said Chichester with a meek
smile which failed to mask his determination to get his own way. Meek men are
always obstinate, I have noticed.
He edged himself sideways into the doorway.
"You're to have No. 28 on the port side," said the steward. "A very
good cabin, sir."
"I am afraid that I must insist. No. 17 was the cabin promised to me."
We had come to an impasse. Each one of us was determined not to give way.
Strictly speaking, I, at any rate, might have retired from the contest and
eased matters by offering to accept Cabin 28. So long as I did not have 13 it
was immaterial to me what other cabin I had. But my blood was up. I had not the
least intention of being the first to give way. And I disliked Chichester. He
had false teeth which clicked when he ate. Many men have been hated for less.
We all said the same things over again. The steward assured us, even more
strongly, that both the other cabins were better cabins. None of us paid any
attention to him.
Pagett began to lose his temper. Chichester kept his serenely. With an effort I
also kept mine. And still none of us would give way an inch.
A wink and a whispered word from the steward gave me my cue. I faded
unobtrusively from the scene. I was lucky enough to encounter the purser almost
immediately.
"Oh, please," I said, "you did say I could have Cabin 17? And the others
won't go away. Mr. Chichester and Mr. Pagett. You will let me have it,
won't you?"
I always say that there are no people like sailors for being nice to women. My
little purser came to the scratch splendidly. He strode to the scene, informed
the disputants that No. 17 was my cabin, they could have Nos. 13 and 28
respectively or stay where they were-whichever they chose.
I permitted my eyes to tell him what a hero he was and then installed myself in
my new domain. The encounter had done me worlds of good. The sea was smooth,
the weather growing daily warmer. Sea-sickness was a thing of the past!
I went up on deck and was initiated into the mysteries of deck-quoits. I
entered my name for various sports. Tea was served on deck, and I ate heartily.
After tea, I played shovel-board with some pleasant young men. They were
extraordinarily nice to me. I felt that life was satisfactory and delightful.
The dressing bugle came as a surprise and I hurried to my new cabin. The
stewardess was awaiting me with a troubled face.
"There's a terrible smell in your cabin, miss. What it is, I'm sure I
can't think, but I doubt if you'll be able to sleep here. There's a deck
cabin up on C deck, I believe. You might move into that-just for the night,
anyway."
The smell really was pretty bad-quite nauseating. I told the stewardess I
would think over the question of moving whilst I dressed. I hurried over my
toilet, sniffing distastefully as I did so.
What was the smell? Dead rat? No, worse than that-and quite different. Yet I
knew it! It was something I had smelt before. Something--Ah! I had got it.
Asafœtida! I had worked in a Hospital dispensary during the war for a short
time and had become acquainted with various nauseous drugs.
Asafœtida, that was it. But how--
I sank down on the sofa, suddenly realizing the thing. Somebody had put a pinch
of asafœtida in my cabin. Why? So that I should vacate it? Why were they so
anxious to get me out? I thought of the scene this afternoon from a rather
different point of view. What was there about Cabin 17 that made so many people
anxious to get hold of it? The other two cabins were better cabins, why had
both men insisted on sticking to 17?
17. How the number persisted. It was on the 17th I had sailed from Southampton.
It was a 17-I stopped with a sudden gasp. Quickly I unlocked my suit-case,
and took my precious paper from its place of concealment in some rolled
stockings.
17 1 22-I had taken that for a date, the date of departure of the Kilmorden
Castle. Supposing I was wrong. When I came to think of it, would any one,
writing down a date, think it necessary to put the year as well as the month?
Supposing 17 meant Cabin 17? And 1? The time-one o'clock. Then 22 must be
the date. I looked up at my little almanac.
To-morrow was the 22nd!
