
In the first heat of indignation I found my next step unexpectedly easy to
tackle. I had had a half-formed plan in my head when I went into Scotland Yard.
One to be carried out if my interview there was unsatisfactory (it had been
profoundly unsatisfactory). That is, if I had the nerve to go through with it.
Things that one would shrink from attempting normally are easily tackled in a
flush of anger. Without giving myself time to reflect, I walked straight to the
house of Lord Nasby.
Lord Nasby was the millionaire owner of the Daily_Budget. He owned other
papers-several of them, but the Daily_Budget was his special child. It was as
the owner of the Daily_Budget that he was known to every householder in the
United Kingdom. Owing to the fact that an itinerary of the great man's daily
proceedings had just been published, I knew exactly where to find him at this
moment. It was his hour for dictating to his secretary in his own house.
I did not, of course, suppose that any young woman who chose to come and ask
for him would be at once admitted to the august presence. But I had attended to
that side of the matter. In the card-tray in the hall of the Flemmings' house
I had observed the card of the Marquis of Loamsley, England's most famous
sporting peer. I had removed the card, cleaned it carefully with bread-crumbs,
and pencilled upon it the words: "Please give Miss Beddingfeld a few moments
of your time." Adventuresses must not be too scrupulous in their methods.
The thing worked. A powdered footman received the card and bore it away.
Presently a pale secretary appeared. I fenced with him successfully. He retired
defeated. He again reappeared and begged me to follow him. I did so. I entered
a large room, a frightened-looking shorthand-typist fled past me like a
visitant from the spirit-world. Then the door shut and I was face to face with
Lord Nasby.
A big man. Big head. Big face. Big moustache. Big stomach. I pulled myself
together. I had not come here to comment on Lord Nasby's stomach. He was
already roaring at me.
"Well, what is it? What does Loamsley want? You his secretary? What's it
all about?"
"To begin with," I said with as great an appearance of coolness as I could
manage, "I don't know Lord Loamsley, and he certainly knows nothing about
me. I took his card from the tray in the house of the people I'm staying
with, and I wrote those words on it myself. It was important that I should see
you."
For a moment it appeared to be a toss up as to whether Lord Nasby had apoplexy
or not. In the end, he swallowed twice and got over it.
"I admire your coolness, young woman. Well, you see me! If you interest me,
you will continue to see me for exactly two minutes longer."
"That will be ample," I replied. "And I shall interest you. It's the
Mill House Mystery."
"If you've found 'The Man in the Brown Suit,' write to the Editor,"
he interrupted hastily.
"If you will interrupt, I shall be more than two minutes," I said sternly.
"I haven't found 'The Man in the Brown Suit,' but I'm quite likely to
do so."
In as few words as possible I put the facts of the Tube accident and the
conclusions I had drawn from them before him. When I had finished he said
unexpectedly:
"What do you know of brachycephalic heads?"
I mentioned Papa.
"The Monkey man? Eh? Well, you seem to have a head of some kind upon your own
shoulders, young woman. But it's all pretty thin, you know. Not much to go
upon. And no use to us-as it stands."
"I'm perfectly aware of that."
"What d'you want, then?"
"I want a job on your paper to investigate this matter."
"Can't do that. We've got our own special man on it."
"And I've got my own special knowledge."
"What you've just told me, eh?"
"Oh, no, Lord Nasby. I've still got something up my sleeve."
"Oh, you have, have you? You seem a bright sort of girl. Well, what is it?"
"When this so-called doctor got into the lift, he dropped a piece of paper. I
picked it up. It smelt of moth balls. So did the dead man. The doctor didn't.
So I saw at once that the doctor must have taken it off the body. It had two
words written on it and some figures."
"Let's see it."
Lord Nasby stretched out a careless hand.
"I think not," I said, smiling. "It's my find, you see."
"I'm right. You are a bright girl. Quite right to hang on to it. No
scruples about not handing it over to the police?"
"I went there to do so this morning. They persisted in regarding the whole
thing as having nothing to do with the Marlow affair, so I thought that in the
circumstances I was justified in retaining the paper. Besides, the inspector
put my back up."
"Short-sighted man. Well, my dear girl, here's all I can do for you. Go on
working on this line of yours. If you get anything-anything that's
publishable-send it along and you shall have your chance. There's always
room for real talent on the Daily_Budget. But you've got to make good first.
See?"
I thanked him, and apologized for my methods.
"Don't mention it. I rather like cheek-from a pretty girl. By the way,
you said two minutes and you've been three, allowing for interruptions. For a
woman, that's quite remarkable! Must be your scientific training."
I was in the street again, breathing hard as though I had been running. I found
Lord Nasby rather wearing as a new acquaintance.
